# The Resource System

Futurewalker provides resource system for bundling various resources such as strings, images, etc. into binary format.  
Applications can load those files at runtime to access stored resource values through resource IDs.

Resources are managed as text files and can be compiled into binary format at build time.  
This allows developers to manage resources separately from application source code.  

### Important Concepts 

* Resource File
    * Text file which describes information of resources.
* Resource Bundle
    * Binary bundle of compiled resource modules.
* Resource Entities
    * Entities correspond to each resource description.
* Resource Identifier
    * Identifier of specific resource. Used for loading resource data from resource bundle.
* Resource Compiler
    * A program which creates resource bundle from resource files.

### Resource Entities and Modules

#### Entities

Resource entities are logical unit of resource values described in resource files.  
There are multiple types of resource entities, but all of entities have common data fields:

```
type Entity {
    id: String
    locale: String
}
```

* `id`: Identifier of the resource entity.
    * Identifier can contain one or more dot-separated components. Each component must start from `[a-zA-Z]` and can only contain `[a-zA-Z0-9]`.
    * For example, `HelloWorld.Text.Hello` and `myapp.image.dog01` are valid resource identifiers, but `myapp/images/abc` is not.
* `locale`: BCP 47 locale tag of the entity.
    * There might be multiple entities with identical `id` but different `locale`s.
    * Resource system will pick appropriate entity at runtime based on current locale setting of an application.

##### String Entity

```
type StringEntity: Entity {
    value: String
}
```

* `value`: Value of the string 

##### File Entity

```
type FileEntity: Entity {
    path: String
}
```

* `path`: Path to the file to be included.

#### Modules

Resource modules are logical set of resource entities.  
Modules provide its own namespace for entities and other module-wide metadata.

```
type Module {
    name: String
    uuid: Uuid
    primary-locale: String
    entities: Entity[]
    metadata: Any[]
}
```

* `name`: Display name of the module.
* `uuid`: Unique UUID of the module.
* `primary-locale`: Primary local of the module.
    * Used by resource system to pick default entities.
    * When unspecified, defaults to "en-us".
* `entities`: List of entities in the module.
* `metadata`: List of metadata of the module.
    * Might contain information for specific module type.

### Resource Compilation Process

Resource bundles are generated by resource compiler at build time, then these bundles are copied into application folder.  
Resource compile takes one or more resource files and generates resource bundle and source codes which can be used to load resource values in the application. 

### Directory Structure

#### Library

- src
    - SomeLibrary
        - Resource
            - Win
            - Mac
            - Common
                - SomeLibrary.xml
                - SomeLibraryPart.xml


